-(raindrops pattering)
-(thunder rumbling)
♪ Welcome to the bright and warm
white sands of Omoto Beach ♪
♪ Dive down deep below
the blue frothing waves ♪
♪ Watch the little schools
of fish swim by ♪
♪ Is that a person or is that Hiruko? ♪
I'm sorry, Hizuru.
I know I said before that I would be happy
to meet all your friends.
But when they came...
You don't have to do
anything you don't want to.
I guess I really only like
being around you.
(bells clinking)
You're not like other people, Hizuru.
You think I'm different?
Well, yeah, most people
just run away when they see me,
but you ran right toward me,
you always do.
This is the second floor, huh?
You could still go upstairs 14 years ago.
That's 'cause there's a rumor
that this place is haunted.
Yes, I know, that's exactly
why I've been told not to meet you.
By who?
Well, by Shide.
(theme music)
(raindrops pattering)
Shide told you? Well, who's that?
Hmm, I'm not really supposed to say,
but I guess it couldn't hurt
to tell you a little.
Well, for starters, he's got four arms.
It's because he can be
so greedy sometimes.
(gasps)
Four arms?
Shide...
Shide... Shide.
That's the four-armed monster!
-(stomach rumbles)
-Huh?
-HIZURU: Oh, right, of course.
HIZURU: I brought it.
Here.
(Heine gasps cheerfully)
I've always wanted this!
Thanks so much, Hizuru.
I always wondered how these things tasted!
-(chuckles)
-(chomps)
HEINE: Okay, I want to be the mom!
Sure, I'll be the sister, then.
This must be a different day.
USHIOH: Shinpei, do you think
that could actually be Heine?
SHINPEI: I don't know. But let's keep
watching this memory till the end.
HEINE: What's wrong, Hizuru?
I just cut my finger.
HEINE: Are you okay? Let me see.
-Oh. Hey, what...
-(Heine slurping)
Heine? Heine, that tickles.
(stomach rumbles)
I hate when I get this tired. I hate it.
HEINE: I hate it.
Hey, you don't look so good.
Did you eat anything
besides what I brought?
HIZURU: Uh, Heine?
HEINE: So many of them starved to death.
(sobs)
All the adults died,
and then we couldn't catch a single fish.
It was in the summer,
my mom died, my dad died,
my siblings died, everyone,
they all died.
(sobbing)
Hizuru?
-HIZURU: Hm?
-HEINE: My shadow...
Do you think you could touch
my shadow, too?
Uh...
Would you, please?
(sobbing)
HEINE: Your hand is so warm.
It feels good, Hizuru.
HIZURU: Your shadow can feel it?
HEINE: Mm-hm.
HIZURU: I'll be sure
to bring more food next time.
Thanks a lot, Hizuru.
HEINE: I hope you'll always be my friend,
no matter what.
SHINPEI: It's summer.
NEZU: Hey.
You're the Minakata girl,
isn't that right?
What're you doing here in the forest?
Well, I'm walking.
NEZU: Yeah, I can see that.
This place can be dangerous, you know.
There are snakes in the long grass.
Then isn't it dangerous for you, too?
NEZU: You bet it is.
That's why I work here. They pay me
to control the snake population.
You're in the way, okay?
Have some respect, at least use the path.
Huh? She got snacks?
KOBA: Hm, she just bought a whole bunch.
Aren't you having a party?
That's right, but she never came back
from the Koba Mart.
We're worried about her.
Really? She said she was gonna share
with a friend.
I thought for sure she meant you.
Huh?
Koba, did she really say that?
BOTH: Mt. Takanosu!
RYUNOSUKE: Hey, Sis! You there?
(exhales heavily)
RYUNOSUKE: I just hope she has some water.
What if she's passed out somewhere?
Sometimes she even forgets to breathe
when she gets too focused.
Hm? Wait. Who was that?
Uh...
(Heine whimpering)
RYUNOSUKE: A red kimono? Who's that?
SHINPEI: I got a bad feeling.
Is this the moment?
(Heine whimpering)
RYUNOSUKE: Is this the friend
Sis told us about?
Hey.
No, don't. Ryunosuke. Don't go.
Are you okay? Do you feel sick?
-RYUNOSUKE: Aah!
-Ms. Nagumo!
(gasps)
(panting)
Hello? Is someone over there?
(gasps)
Did she hear me just now?
HIZURU: Must be hearing things.
"Ms. Nagumo"? No way.
SHINPEI: Oh, no. She can't hear me.
(flash squealing)
What the... What was that?
(gasps)
(ominous music)
(snarling)
HIZURU: Ryunosuke...
-Why, Heine?
-(Heine gasps)
Did you... Did you do this?
Hizuru...
-HEINE: Huh?
-(static)
HEINE (whimpers): No.
No, please, not me.
No, not me!
Please, not me!
(Heine shrieking)
(splats)
SHINPEI: An eye? Heine's right eye!
(Shinpei gasps)
Was that what I think?
HEINE (whimpering):
It hurts! It hurts! It hurts!
It hurts!
(shrieking)
HIZURU: Ryunosuke?
Ryunosuke!
HIZURU: No, why... Why'd this happen?
(sobbing)
Heine!
(gasps)
(ominous music)
You bastard!
SHADOW MOTHER: Wait a minute.
Who's that? Who is it?
-All right. Go on, then.
-(Hizuru gasps)
(Shadow Baby giggling)
(gasps)
-(grunts)
-HIZURU: The hunter.
NEZU: What the hell happened?
What the...
-HIZURU: Watch out! Stay away!
-(Nezu grunts)
(Nezu groans)
(flash squeals)
-Huh?
-(static)
(grunting)
Is that me? It can't be.
-(gasps)
-Oh, Sis, I...
(screams)
No way!
Whoa!
(screaming)
(groans)
Hey. What are you? How did you do that?
(Shadow Baby chuckles)
What the hell? So are they immortal?
-So... So this is where you've been.
-Hm?
-I was looking for you...
-Hey! Wait!
RYUNOSUKE: Don't worry,
I got enough water for you, too, Sis.
Today is our... our birthday.
Isn't it, Sis?
I think he's inside Hizuru.
(Shadow Baby whimpers)
Heine must've released
the shadow's abilities
and Ryunosuke's data at the same time.
SHINPEI: So that means Ms. Nagumo's
being moved by Ryunosuke.
(gasps)
Huh? What was that?
(breathes sharply)
I'm sorry about that, Sis.
I might've hurt your shoulder.
NEZU: Mm, huh? Hey! Are you okay?
Wake up! Hey! Hey!
HITOGASHIMA ISLAND
(calm music)
(approaching footsteps)
(sobbing)
(gasps)
HEINE: I'll let you go this time.
Because we were so close.
But the next time we meet, I'll kill you.
(Shinpei gasps)
(Shinpei groans)
Shinpei. You came back.
Wait! This is before we went to Koba Mart.
No, don't do it. Please don't.
Don't go in. Don't go in.
Oh, I'm at home again.
SHADOW SHIORI: Ushioh broke Shinpei's neck
and looped back.
Papa, what time is it?
It, uh, almost six o'clock.
Last time, the starting point
was before the funeral.
It's getting later and later.
SHIDE: Perhaps the starting point
is getting later,
because Shinpei's powers are growing
progressively weaker with each loop.
(chuckles)
Every time he dies,
he has less and less time
to observe things when he comes back.
Well, that's a good discovery.
SHADOW SHIORI: Then we should let him loop
over and over again,
just like he said he would.
Until he can't loop anymore.
(chomps)
(giggles)
So keep killing Shinpei
every time he comes back
until he loses his power
to loop altogether?
And eventually, he'll die for good?
(chomps)
Exactly right.
Let him slowly use up his life.
It's easier than taking him alive.
Right, Shide?
Right.
SHIDE: Asako. May I have seconds, please?
-(door opens)
-Oh.
Hey there. Are you hungry at all?
I brought you this.
You know, you're a bit of an odd guy,
cooking at a time like this.
That day, when Ryunosuke entered
your body forever.
I was definitely surprised,
but I got used to it.
Ryunosuke is strong like Ushioh,
and you've saved me
more times than I can count.
HIZURU: If possible,
I always prefer to fight for myself.
I really don't like
bringing out Ryunosuke.
SHINPEI: You care for your brother,
don't you?
Why do you say that?
I have a younger sister, so I understand.
You don't want Ryunosuke
to battle with shadows
and have to suffer all over again.
That's my guess.
I'd say you're overthinking it.
Really? Think so?
I'm only looking after myself.
HIZURU: If he fought with all his power,
it would completely shatter my body.
I dislocated my shoulder
and sprained my ankle that day.
I was totally bedridden for five days,
I could hardly move at all.
It was excruciating.
(chomps)
Mmm.
Ah. I'm sorry, do you not like spicy food?
No, I like it.
It reminds me of eating at Kofune.
HIZURU: On every July 22nd so far,
Mio's shadow was at Bistro Kofune,
but tonight, she'll probably come here.
Shadow Mio pretty much ignores
the real Mio.
She's been given certain orders
that precede her instinct,
to kill her original.
The orders are from Heine.
We can use that to our advantage.
That's right.
SHINPEI: With this mark,
do you think
Heine will know my location, too?
HIZURU: I guess we'll find out.
Remember, the enemy loops too,
so we have to move quickly.
If Ushioh is able to share her memories,
then the others will feel
like they looped, too.
We'll attack
with our full strength right away.
MIO: I'm sorry.
Sorry I called you a monster.
You were fighting
as hard as you possibly could.
Oh, at the summer festival?
Don't worry about it.
I sort of am a monster, to be honest.
-I'm not upset about it at all...
-(Mio sobbing)
I was so afraid I'd never see you again!
-(Mio crying)
-Mio, don't cry, it's okay, I promise.
MIO: Let me fight,
please let me fight, Sis.
I can't just watch you two
risk your lives to protect me.
Mio, the reason we brought you here
is to keep you safe.
Shin-chan. I'm finally ready
to fight back.
BISTRO KOFUNE
SHINPEI: Alain's not answering.
That's odd. He's usually home by now.
(gasps)
(rumbling)
-USHIOH: Shinpei?
-(Shinpei gasps)
Are you okay?
Uh, I think so, just a little bit nervous.
Do I have to do this?
Shinpei, every mission needs a leader.
We all want to hear from you right now.
Uh, I don't think I can be
the leader, all right?
I think you'd be better at that.
-Shinpei, it's gotta be you!
-(grunts)
USHIOH:
'Cause if it weren't for your powers,
none of us would be here right now.
Oh, okay. Well, I... All right.
SHINPEI: For a long time, I've had
this habit of stepping back from reality.
It can often feel like
a different me is looking down
from high above and watching.
So I was able to see myself
in the big picture,
amidst my surroundings.
If I messed up,
it didn't feel like I was doing it.
I thought I was being wise
by living like that.
But after Ushio died,
all I had left was regret.
I should've at least called her
once in a while.
I should've come home for New Years.
I wish I'd been able to make her
my famous curry one last time.
I thought I saw everything,
but I missed that.
I've made so many mistakes in my life.
And the most painful feeling
is when I regret things
I know I can't fix.
I'll probably have more regrets
in the future, I'm sure I will.
But I don't want to feel
like this anymore.
So I'll avoid doing anything
that I might regret later.
I always do this.
I always run away from my regrets.
Run away? Why?
SHINPEI: That doesn't mean
I'm not going to do anything.
I'm breaking the cycle.
If I'm gonna have regrets,
I at least need to do something,
something to change this.
That's how I feel now.
So even if I... if I fail,
if everything goes wrong
and I end up dead,
I need to know that I fought hard
and gave this my all.
You saw that Ushio fought alone,
battling shadows,
until she couldn't fight anymore.
That's how she lost her life.
Trying to save Shiori.
It pains me to think
how truly disappointed,
how alone she must have felt then.
So I'll finish what she started.
I won't let the end
of that festival repeat itself.
If we all work together,
I know we can do this.
But don't take my word.
-(Mio and Tokiko gasp)
-But why not?
SHINPEI:
Because I can't guarantee your lives.
I don't know if we'll win this fight.
But I... I'm not giving you
the choice to leave.
I know it sounds like I'm being selfish,
but I don't want regrets.
So the reason I'm forcing you to stay
is because I don't want
to regret not forcing you.
So pick up a weapon,
take a deep breath, and fight with me.
NEZU: Okay.
Now, how will you show yourself?
-(leaves rustling)
-(hissing)
Huh? A snake.
(knife pierces flesh)
You're outta your mind.
You just expect us to die for you?
We're not your pawns, you know!
(gasps)
(approaching footsteps)
Shinpei loves this island, all right?
And he loves all of you!
He might not be good with words,
but Shinpei is on your side.
What's wrong with taking the side
of the people you love?
MIO: I'll fight.
Wait, what, Mio?
-Me too, Shinpei.
-Uh...
I'm always on your side, my friend.
That'll never change.
-TOKIKO: Do you know the facts?
-Huh?
The numbers?
Do you know how many shadows
there are on this island?
We don't have any chance of winning.
Especially not if Heine can loop back now.
Shinpei is leading us off a cliff.
He's trying to get us killed.
SOU: Tokiko!
Yeah, that's right! You tell him!
But the... truth is,
I've already died once before.
-My life is yours now.
-Oh...
Huh?
(whimpering)
HIZURU: Unless we kill them,
there's no path forward.
God, oh, goddamn it.
Why, God, why? Oh, no!
All right, fine! Let's do it, then!
I'm a man of action, goddamn it!
SHINPEI: Thank you, everyone.
(emotional music)
(silence)
(clanks)
SHINPEI: Huh? I'm home again.
Am I back? I looped.
I died? But...
When?
(closing theme music)